
Requirements
------------
Java 1.5
NMR-STAR 3.1 validator

Installation
------------
Unpack the tarball
Edit starch.sh script, replace "CHANGE_PATH_TO" with paths
 to PostgreSQL JDBC driver jar and starchbin.jar (included in tarball).
Put starch.sh in users' PATH

Running
-------

1. Validate metadata file (open it in validator and run some validation function(s)).
2. Run 
 starch.sh <path to upload dir>
3. In STARch interface,
  3.1 Open file
  3.2 Precheck
  3.3 Convert
  3.4 Save file

Input file must be in NMR-STAR 3.1 format, with author-provided residue sequence, label and
atom names in "regular" columns (e.g. residue label in _Atom_chem_shift.Comp_ID, not in
_Atom_chem_shift.Author_comp_code). Input file may not have all the columns, generally only
sequence number, label, atom name, and value columns are required.

Precheck will ask for entry ID (BMRB accession number) and ask you to select entity name
from the list. Entity names are read from the metadata, check for entry ID is there to make
sure you have the right metadata in validator database. This is why step 1 is required.
Entity names are needed to determine entity's polymer type: amino acid or nucleic acid.

If precheck reports critical errors, they need to be fixed before you can run Convert.
At the moment you'll have to fix the errors in a text editor, outside of STARch, and then
repeat steps 3.1 and 3.2. Critical errors include:
 unknown residue/atom -- software does not know how to convert these,
 duplicate atom -- e.g. if GLN has both HG2 and HG*: when pseudo-atom HG* is expanded
  into HG2 and HG3, that results in two HG2's.

EXCEPTION: ligands/non-standard residues will produce "Unknown residue" and "Unknown atom"
critical errors if the ligand is not in validator database. In that case, use
 Options - Clear Errors
then run Convert. This will copy residue and atom name "as is", without any conversion.
Make sure all critical errors are from ligands/non-standard residues before doing this:
it will also ignore any genuine errors (e.g. mis-typed atom name). 

After conversion, atom name may be edited by clicking on the cell. Also, ambiguity code
cell is editable.

Bugs
----
Not tested on tables other than chemical shifts. There is an open bug report for crash
when converting heteronuclear NOE data.

Ambiguity code fix-up is not implemented yet.

